Ta naʻe haʻu eni fuʻu maka,
Tuʻu matafale, ta koe mala;
Koefe hoto otu takanga,
Mo nai faʻe naʻe paemaka?

Ah, there came this great rock, 
Stood before the house; ah, woe;
Where is my band of companions, 
And my dear mothers, a wall to me? 

p28

Fakaʻamu ʻa Vai-tokelau,
ʻOku tapu e lotoʻa e valu,
Pea apu moe vai kaukau;
Ka ʻoku ke ʻita pea foki atu.

Great the desire of Northern-water,
Reserved is the eight-fenced compound,
And reserved is the bathing pool;
If you are angry then return.
p28


Hoto ʻofa talai ki he matangi; he meʻa koa he hua ʻo hai, ʻa etau nonofo he fonua ni?
Sani mai e fanga ko Kei-tahi, moe ongo ʻTausisi-vavaki-- kohai koa kei lata ai?
Ke hange koe otu Haʻapai, ka havili pea fe-ngalom-aki, ka malu pea fe-kiteng-aki.
Tau vakaia siene fetaki, hange ha hua fe-ilong-aki.
Amusia Logia ʻi Vai-lahi, naʻe tulekina ʻe he ohu afi; pea tau mohe ʻolunga kia ai.
Tau ki Paluki ki he Kasi-vaki, mohe kia Lou-pua ki Pangai.
Hengihengi pea fe-langa-aki ʻae fefine ʻoka tangitangi,toli ʻae siale ʻoka mapaki, tui pea tau kahoa ki tahi, ʻo mamata he vaka papalangi, pea moe taulanga tongiaki.
Ka funga Toku leva e matangi pea fanongoa mei lotoʻa kuo peaua e loto fanga, faka-namuli kuo kaina.
Te tuʻu ʻi Alai-muitoa pea ulualo mai e pua ʻI he funga vai ʻi Veli-toa.
Hange ha kumi ʻoku fofola ʻae tuʻu ʻae Tongo-leleka ʻoka teitei to e laʻa pea hama e niu ʻi Lifuka; ʻoka taulomaki e tonga tepa he moʻunga ʻo Tofua, Mo Tohona-kao kuo kaina.

My longing is told to the wind; is it a thing in which one may joy, that in this land we abide?
Fair beckons the strand of Keitahi, and the wave-beat of Tausisivavaki--who is there content to stay here?
Let it be like the isles of Haapai, in the storm-wind one hidden from other, but in calm they appear to each other.
Let us see their dear clasping of hands, like the joy friends take in each other. I long for Lofia in Vailahi, its crest was stooped o'er by the fire smoke; let us go and sleep on the summit.
Put in at Paluki at Kasivaki, sleep with Loupua at Pangai. 
At dawn go early together the women when flowers are opening, pluck siale when blossoms are drooping, plait it, and to the sea we go garlanded and see the ship of the white men, and the harbor of sailing canoes. When the wind blows direct from Toku from the chief's compound you straightway shall harken to the waves in the midst of the strand Fakanamuli where people are gathered.
I shall stand in Alaimuitoa where there comes the fragrance of pua from the water in Velitoa.
Like a cloth that is laid outspreading are the magroves of Tongolekeka.
When the sunh is near to its setting beams glance on the palms of Lifuka; when the south wind blows full swelling look aside at the mount of Tofua, and the Tohonakao that is peopled. 


p104
